Prompt

Craft Paper Prompt for Intro to Writing Fiction

The craft paper fulfills the course requirement that you synthesize what you’ve learned about writing craft with your own growth as a writer and reader.

For this assignment, my expectation is that your paper will be a .doc or .doc-compatible file,
between 3 and 4 pages long, double-spaced, in a 12 point font and meticulously proofread.
It should have a title, and your name should be on the first page. It should be written in a
casual (but not sloppy!) style, similar to your responses: making use of “I” “me” and “my”
etc. Please avoid constructs like “One may see…” and “The reader will notice…” I don’t know
who “we” is so best not to use it.

I’m giving you this prompt over three months before the paper is due so that you can think
about your topic and what you want to say over the rest of the semester. Your final paper
should reflect the entirety of the course and what you’ve been thinking about and learning.
You may cut and paste from a prior short response (or responses) if they connect to your
topic, but make sure the paper flows smoothly. Yes, really, I said that you could cut and
paste.

I’d like you to consider at least one of the main elements of writing fiction that we have
discussed or will discuss in class – character, plot, conflict, dialogue, setting – and what
you’ve learned about it from our class readings (by this I mean all that we have read in
class, from Bird by Bird to the short stories to your classmates’ work), as well as one story of
your choice from Best American Short Stories 2020 which we did not read in class. My
interest is in reading about what you have learned/noticed, or are learning/noticing, or
hope to learn/notice about how writing fiction works.

In other words, please do not simply perform what I am sure would be a very accurate
analysis of a piece of literature, telling me about the literary elements. Instead, dig into
some aspect of writing that you genuinely find intriguing. Find a place to start: perhaps a
quote on character from Bird by Bird, and then a quote from two different short stories that
illustrate what you think Lamott is saying about character, and then how you attempted to
build character in the same way in your story. Or you could start with one of the stories,
compare it to another one, and then find a section of Bird by Bird that fits into what you are
observing. In other words, show what you are learning about writing from your reading and
thinking. Keep in mind, as always, you may not have a decisive lesson yet. But show me how
you are working on figuring stuff out and how your writing is changing because of the
course. Get those
