Problem Solving Paper_Rough Draft


Problem Solving Paper_Rough Draft

    Your goal is to write a problem solving paper that demonstrates an interesting and meaningful issue related to AI and society, and propose your solution to the problem. You will integrate secondary research (academic sources) into your research writing. Individually, you will include at least 5 academic sources to inform and persuade your audience.

    Before our Wednesday's class, please submit a rough draft (600-900 words, not including the references) that includes the following sections. 

        Title:
            Create a clear and concise title that is well-connected with the topic of your study.

        Introduction:
            Provide the background of the study (including a review of previous literature), an overview of the research problem and questions, and your solution (thesis).

        Claims:
            Back up your claims by integrating academic sources. Support your thesis by addressing counterarguments. 
            Please use headings to structure the main sections of the article.

        Results (Optional for the rough draft):
            Share your solution to the problem based on both the previous literature and your empirical research data (an interview or a survey). 

        Conclusion (Optional for the rough draft):
            Revisit the key arguments and recommendations in this research paper.

        References:
            Provide a list of at least 5 academic sources cited in APA.


    Writing tips:

        1. You will provide a thesis statement, make a clear claim, and address counterarguments to persuade the audience.
        2. Your researched argument should be based on solid research and carefully curated sources.
        3. Use headings/subheadings and simple but memorable introductions and conclusions.
        4. Your audience for this researched argument includes your professor and other research writers. Be sure to make your argument easily understandable and accessible to the audience.
        5. You should consider using styles and voice that convey your authority as a writer, such as using academic language and a first/third person, strong tone.


Rubric
    Points: 2
