Problem Solving Paper_Final Draft


Your goal is to write a problem solving paper that demonstrates an interesting and meaningful issue of local or global significance, and propose your solution to the problem. You will integrate secondary research (academic sources) into your research writing. Individually, you will include at least 5 academic sources to inform and persuade your audience.

Please submit a final draft (1200-1500 words, not including the title page and references) that includes the following sections. 

	Title page: 
		Use the APA handout below to format your title page. 
		Create a clear and concise title that is well-connected with the topic of your study.
	
	Introduction: 
		Provide the background of the study (including a review of previous literature), an overview of the research problem and questions, and your solution (thesis).
	
	Body paragraphs: 
		Back up your claims by integrating academic sources. 
		Support your thesis by addressing counterarguments.
		Please use headings and transition words to organize the main sections of the article.
	
	Conclusion: 
		Revisit the key arguments and recommendations in this research paper.
	
	References: 
		Provide a list of at least 5 academic sources cited in APA.


Writing tips:

	1. You will provide a thesis statement, make a clear claim, and address counterarguments to persuade the audience. 
	2. Your researched argument should be based on solid research and carefully curated sources. 
	3. Use headings/subheadings and simple but memorable introductions and conclusions.
	4. Your audience for this researched argument includes your professor and other research writers. 
	   Be sure to make your argument easily understandable and accessible to the audience.
	5. You should consider using styles and voice that convey your authority as a writer, 
	   such as using academic language and a first/third person, strong tone.


Researched Argument Rubric

Criteria			Ratings				Pts

Argument			Presenting a clear central idea or thesis, designing clear topic sentences relevant 
				to the thesis, and addressing objections/counterarguments.				3 pts

Support				Demonstrating the ability to analyze, paraphrase, and synthesize sources effectively.	3 pts

Sources				Including at least 5 recently published academic sources in your essay, and some 
				synthesis of ideas from these sources.							3 pts

Organization			Following a logical pattern; Using topic sentences, transitions, 
				headings/subheadings, introductions, conclusions and other organizational 
				features (a title page, header, page numbers) to guide the reader.			3 pts

Writer's Ethos			Meeting the minimum length requirement. Using formal, academic language and a 
				first/third person, serious tone. Following the APA citation format. It is carefully 
				proofread and lacks errors.							3 pts

Total Points: 15


Ratings Scale:
	3 pts	= Superior
	2 pts	= Well-developed
	1 pts	= Emerging
	0 pts	= Weak
