Prompt Essay 2: Modeling the Unconventional Essay  
700 words minimum  

"A hermit crab wears the top of a broken bottle as a shell." — Shawn Miller  


Introduction: modeling and mentor texts  
A good way to learn about how essays work, and about writing more generally, is to take on the style  
and form (what we call “modeling”) of other essays (often called “mentor texts”) to learn what the  
form allows and makes possible. As our course goals tell us, “Writers grow when they closely read  
the work of others and their own.” In this vein, give these questions some thought:  

	• How and why does the author enact this form?  
	• What are some of the signature moves in this form?  
	• How might you teach someone else to write like the essay you’re modeling?  


For this essay project:  
We’re going to take some risks and try something new and unconventional. So be bold! Be daring!  
Model one of the following essays (which we’ve close-read and explored in class) as you develop an  
essay based on your own agenda:  

	• “Girl,” by Jamaica Kincaid  
	• “Son of Mr. Green Jeans, an Essay on Fatherhood,” by Dinty Moore  
	• “Are You Allowed to Criticize Simone Biles?” by Carlos Greaves  


For this essay project, specifically, we are working on this course goal:  
We consider various conventions of Englishes, choosing the most effective vocabulary and sentence  
structures to achieve our writing goals, including knowing when to disregard ‘rules’ for our own  
purposes. This includes expanding the form of the essay itself, which is always evolving.  


As with every essay, this essay—regardless of its form—should have:  

	1. A central focusing idea (center of gravity) with meaning and purpose for an audience  
	   beyond yourself.  

	2. Identifiable big ideas that develop your central focusing idea.  

	3. Concrete and specific details and examples, including research if you choose  
	   (though research is not required).  

	4. A clear sense of audience (as identified by your essay’s rhetorical choices).  


To encourage confidence and fearlessness (and, thus, encourage you to engage in critical inquiry  
and discovery), this essay will be graded on:  

	1. Your engagement and responsibility (including completing in-class and after-class  
	   activities on time and with your full attention) to the process of writing, reading,  
	   and presenting throughout this project.  

	2. Your generosity and commitment to your peers in workshop.  

	3. Your commitment to following the directions of this prompt, including: modeling an  
	   unconventional form, developing the necessary “parts” of an essay, using concrete and  
	   specific details and examples, and engaging in critical inquiry as you discover  
	   something new!  

	4. An analysis and response that showcases your new understanding(s) of what makes an essay  
	   successful.  


Specifically, each activity for this project (both in-class and after-class) will result in the  
final project grade as detailed below:  

	1. Collaborative teaching in-class activity.............10%  
	2. Entering the conversation: a letter to the author.....10%  
	3. “I Am” poem in-class activity........................10%  
	4. Discovery Draft: a letter to someone in your own life.15%  
	5. Multiple in-class peer workshops.....................20%  
	6. An unconventional essay..............................15%  
	7. Analysis and Response: a letter to your peer..........20%  
