C. PROMPT Essay 1, The Image Essay. COMPLETE DRAFT FOR AN INITIAL GRADE


PROMPT, ESSAY ONE:
The Image Essay

"Something You're Fascinated by, Obsessed with, or Wondering About"

minimum of 1000 words

In this essay, you'll practice a more traditional academic move, which is to give your own ideas “context”
by summarizing the research and ideas of others before responding to them. In this way you’ll listen to,
summarize, and then “enter the existing conversation” about something that you’re fascinated by,
obsessed with, or wondering about.


Part 1 (context and summary):

First, now that you’ve read and annotated a resource of your choosing, think about the following
questions:

	• What conversation is the resource/author participating in?
	• Who is the resource/author and why are they participating in this conversation?
	• What is the resource/author’s opinion/claim/main point/purpose?
	• What evidence/examples does the author use to support his/her/their ideas?

Then: Write!

	Introduce the existing conversation and topic of your essay in your essay’s opening paragraph(s).
	How might you get your reader interested in this topic right from the beginning?

	Do some research to figure out how and why the resource (and the resource’s author) you’re
	summarizing is related to the topic you’re exploring. What do you need to tell your reader about
	this resource and/or author’s relationship to your topic? Why are they important for both the
	existing conversation and your essay’s position? Provide meaningful context about the
	resource/author you’re summarizing and responding to for your reader.

	Use the writing moves and/or summary templates we’ve practiced in class to summarize
	the main idea/purpose/intention (the claim or “central focusing idea”) and supporting content
	(the “big ideas”) of your chosen resource.


Part 2 (response):

In this part, you’ll introduce your essay’s “center of gravity” and develop/support that central
focusing idea with examples and ideas from your own experience.

*In other words, “enter the existing conversation” with your own central focusing idea about this
topic that you are fascinated by, obsessed with, or wondering about.*

First,

	Identify your essay’s position/central focusing idea. This central focusing idea should be your
	essay's "center of gravity" and the most important part of your essay. Remember that
	this essay project is not asking you to report, analyze, summarize, or
	develop "reader response" as its sole and central purpose. Rather, this
	essay asks you to use your resource, and the introductory ideas you
	summarized, as a springboard into an essay based on your own agenda
	and with a clear sense of purpose and audience. In other words, write an
	essay based on your "own agenda."

Then,

	Describe/explain/develop examples and ideas from your own experience that relate to the
	position you’ve taken. *In other words, develop your own “big ideas” that work together to support
	your essay’s “center of gravity.”*

Refer to specific ideas and/or passages from your resource. Explain how these passages connect
to your own ideas and experiences.

	Incorporate 2 quotes from your resource into your paragraphs using the framing techniques (the
	“quote burger”) discussed in *They Say/ I Say* and in class.

	Incorporate 5 images into your essay that create meaning/support/development for your central
	focusing idea. Remember that there's a difference between simply "illustrating" an idea and
	"developing" an idea.

Finally,

	Remember to Spell & Grammar check your doc (Spelling & Grammar is under the "Review"
	tab on your Word app, and don't forget about Grammarly!), save it, then upload it to Canvas
	as an attachment.


From *They Say/ I Say, “The Art of Summarizing:”*

	“As a general rule, a good summary requires balancing what the original author is saying with the writer’s
	own focus. Generally speaking, a summary must at once be true to what the original author says while
	also emphasizing those aspects of what the author says that interest you, the writer. Striking this delicate
	balance can be tricky, since it means facing two ways at once: both outward (toward the author being
	summarized) and inward (toward yourself). Ultimately, it means being respectful of others but
	simultaneously structuring how you summarize them in light of your own text’s central argument.”


───────────────────────────────────────────────
RUBRIC: Essay 1, The Image Essay
───────────────────────────────────────────────

SUMMARY — 15 pts
	1. Does the essay provide meaningful context for both the resource it responds
	   to and the ideas in the essay as a whole?
	2. Is the summary of the resource correct, meaningful, and fair? Does it use
	   effective templates/writing moves as required by the prompt?
	3. Is the summary related to the author’s own claim or central focusing idea?
	   Does it balance "what the original author is saying with the writer’s own focus"?

RESPONSE — 30 pts
	1. Does the essay have an explicit “center of gravity” (a claim or central focusing
	   idea)?
	2. Does this claim/central focusing idea:
		a. Focus on the author’s own agenda and not simply a summary or analysis of
		   the resource?
		b. Use concrete and specific language and ideas?
		c. Address the “so what?” question — is this claim meaningful and purposeful?
	3. Does this essay develop “big ideas” that all support the claim?
	4. Do the big ideas develop the author’s own ideas and experiences rather than
	   simply summarizing, analyzing, or responding to those of their resource?

CONCRETE AND SPECIFIC DETAILS AND EXAMPLES — 20 pts
	1. Does this essay use concrete and specific details and examples from the
	   author’s own life and experiences to develop its “big ideas”?

INTEGRATING QUOTES — 20 pts
	1. Does this essay include 2 quotes somewhere in the development of its “big
	   ideas”?
	2. Does each quote effectively use each part of the quote burger? Specifically:
		a. Does it have an introductory sentence (the “top bun”) that prepares the reader?
		b. Does it have a signal phrase using a Template for Introducing and an effective
		   Signal Verb?
		c. Is the quote the “right” quote:
			i. Is it related to the introductory sentence?
			ii. Does it mean what the author thinks it means?
			iii. Is it necessary and meaningful to the author’s ideas?
			iv. Does it make grammatical sense with the rest of the sentence?
		d. Does the quote burger have an explaining sentence at the end? Specifically:
			i. Does it use a Template for Explaining?
			ii. Does it do more than simply repeat the quote?
			iii. Does it interpret the quote correctly?
			iv. Does it connect the quote effectively to the author’s own ideas?

EFFECTIVE RHETORICAL CHOICE AND EFFECT — 10 pts
	Does this essay use effective grammar and punctuation? Are the words the
	author chooses to use in the essay the “right” words for the writing situation and
	audience? Do the sentences make sense and are they in the right logical order?
	Do each of the paragraphs develop one main idea? Are the paragraphs well
	developed and cohesive?

EFFECTIVE IMAGES — 5 pts
	Does the essay effectively incorporate 5 images that create
	meaning/support/development for the essay's central focusing idea rather than
	simply "illustrating" an idea or word?


TOTAL POINTS: 100
