Prompt

Second Short Story Prompt  
Introduction to Writing Fiction 

	The basics, as always: double or 1 ½ space your document, with a typical font. Make 
sure you give your story a title. Submit a .doc file. Use your complete name in the 
filename: FirstLastSecondShortstory.doc.  

	The prompt is much like last time, but you have a little bit more room: please write a 
short story between 750 – 2,500 words long (approximately 3 – 10 pages double-
spaced). It’s completely acceptable, and in many ways preferred to write a story that is 
closer to three pages than ten. Your classmates and I will appreciate doing less reading. 
But you have up to 2500 words to write about the conflict, plot and characters of your 
choice.  

	Remember to start from character – someone or something who wants something, and 
someone or something that opposes them. Also, keep in mind the discouraged topics: 
hospitals, police stations, etc. Realistic scenarios are also preferred – I’m always looking 
for scenes that mostly show instead of telling. It’s always a good idea to write what 
you know – there’s nothing wrong with setting a story in a college, at a camp, in a high 
school, at a part-time job, or anywhere else you know well. This saves you from writing 
way past your comfort zone.  

	Remember, too, that this is a first draft, and you’re not expected to create anything close 
to perfection. You might choose an aspect of writing craft to focus on here – dialogue, 
perhaps, or conflict, or characterization – but allow yourself room and grace to not 
demand perfection at the end of a long, tiring semester. A good first draft is all that is 
required. You will have time and direction to work on your next draft. I was so 
impressed by the revisions I saw on your work from your first drafts to the drafts you 
turned in for the class to read. You made something better before, and you can do so 
again.  

	Due date is midnight, Friday, March 28th at midnight (really, 9 AM on Saturday). You 
are welcome to turn in your story early and I would love it if you do. If you foresee a 
major conflict, ask for an extension before the evening it’s due.  

	Just as before, if you sign up for an earlier workshop, you will have less time to revise 
your story before it goes in front of the class, whereas those workshopping later will 
have more time before (but, obviously, less time after – and everyone must fully and 
meaningfully revise their stories for the final portfolio!).  

	It's been a good semester, and you’ve learned a lot about writing fiction, even if it 
doesn’t feel like you’re an expert yet (you aren’t! Neither am I!). I’m proud of the work 
you’ve done and excited to see your next stories!    

	Happy writing! 
