E. PROMPT Essay 3: The Odd Object, Big Subject, Knowing Author essay FOR AN INITIAL GRADE


PROMPT: Essay 3
The Odd Object, LARGE subject, KNOWING AUTHOR Project

	Minimum of 1200 words
	MLA format as appropriate


Introduction and Pre-Writing/Pre-Thinking Activities:

	In the introduction to the essay collection *The Best American Essays of 2008*, Adam Gopnik suggests that:
		“The odd-object essay...works because, in a material-minded time, our lives are filled with things
		waiting to be made into metaphors” (xvii).

	Relatedly, in recent in-class and after-class activities, we’ve:
		1. Discussed the function of metaphor and how metaphors reveal meaning.
		2. Analyzed how “things” work as metaphors that reveal meaningful insights about the world.
		3. Engaged in a mini-etymology activity.

	All of these activities lead us, then, to this IF/THEN question:


IF:
	As Eula Biss suggests in her short essay, “Consumer:” words can operate as metaphors to reflect our experience of the world,
	AND as Gopnik argues, “our lives are filled with things waiting to be made into metaphors…”

THEN:
	What can both a specific (focused and meaningful) word and a specific (odd or small) object from your life reveal
	about your experience of the world? What can you discover by synthesizing and exploring them both?


Essay Objectives

	For this essay project, you’ll:
		1. Select an “odd object” from your own life, one that is related to your “word” in some way that you will be able to examine from multiple perspectives.
		2. Read several Odd Object/Large Subject/Knowing Author essays and use them as models for your own essay.
		3. Question, Explore, Research, and Write as a form of Critical Inquiry.
		4. Develop paragraphs and “big ideas” using a variety of intentional paragraph forms and genres.
		5. Incorporate the etymology of your "word" in some way.
		6. Draft an essay about how the item reveals something about identity, values, beliefs, or culture.
		7. Create a final, revised essay of at least 1200 alphabetic words.

	MOST IMPORTANTLY:
		Write about something that matters to you AND that also has some larger universal significance.


Total Points: 100


Rubric Criteria

1. This essay explores/synthesizes both an "odd object" and a specific "word" to discover/reveal a meaningful "large subject"
	(the essay's central focusing idea or "center of gravity") with significance and purpose for an audience beyond simply the author themselves.
		Full Marks: 20 pts

2. This essay develops meaningful, well-organized, and cohesive "big ideas" in support of its central focusing idea.
		Full Marks: 20 pts

3. This essay includes at least one narrative paragraph.
		This narrative paragraph:
			1. Tells a story.
			2. Moves through one moment in time (isn’t a vague summary of many events or extended lengths of time).
			3. Appeals to the reader with concrete, specific, and sensory details.
			4. Serves an intentional, rhetorical purpose (context, discovery, revelation, resonance, metaphor, meaning, etc.).
		Full Marks: 15 pts

4. This essay includes at least one descriptive paragraph.
		This descriptive paragraph:
			1. Focuses on one object/scene without moving through time.
			2. Develops using a variety of concrete and specific, sensory details.
			3. Reveals/highlights/reinforces a meaningful focus/idea for the essay as a whole.
		Full Marks: 15 pts

5. This essay includes at least one definition paragraph.
		This definition paragraph:
			1. States the specific "word" that the paragraph will define.
			2. Defines the word using concrete and specific language.
			3. Defines the word in ways that contribute to the author's intention and purpose (and is not a dictionary definition).
			4. Makes connections between the word and the ideas at the heart of the essay as a whole.
		Full Marks: 15 pts

6. Make effective rhetorical choices (including grammar, punctuation, syntax, MLA formatting, and minimum requirements as outlined by the prompt)
	for the essay’s audience, purpose, and writing situation.
		Full Marks: 15 pts