Short Story/Excerpt 1 Prompt 

So, let’s start here with a clarification/reminder: while the final portfolio for this class requires 50 pages of “highly-polished fiction” you will not be able to workshop all of those pages with your classmates. That’s a feature, not a flaw: part of the goal of the class is to help you learn to produce and edit your own writing both with and without significant feedback from others. Another goal is to allow you to experiment and learn from those experiments. Learning to trust your own voice and figure out what’s important to you as a writer, as well as beginning to think about how to produce a lot of work without too much hand-holding…well, that’s the dream!  

Thus, for your first workshop, you’ll need to present 10 or so pages of work. Is 9 okay? Yes! Is 5 okay? Again, yes, but remember, the final goal is still 50. Is 12 okay? Hmm…yes, but do you reeeeally have to? Is 15 okay? No. 

Those pages can be either an excerpt from the novel you’re working on, or from a story from the collection you hope to produce (which can be the full short story or just 10 pages of a longer story). While it’s not required, my guess is since most of you will want to turn in the first 10 pages or so. Can you be sneaky and turn in 10 pages that already existed from another class? I suppose so – if they were for one of my classes, I guarantee I will recognize them, but otherwise, I won’t. Just be aware that you’re going to get feedback on whatever you turn in – there is no 10-page excerpt out there that will just get a “Looks great!” from me. 

Unusually for my class, you do not necessarily have to reach an ending in those 10 pages. But we should be able to see the conflict and plot beginning to develop, and, if it’s a story, we’re likely able to see almost all of the plot. This is mostly to be helpful to you – if you turn in 10 pages that’s just building the setting, we’re not going to have much feedback to give you beyond, “You should start the story,” you know? 

I’ve given you a deliberately tight deadline in hopes to spark you to get started NOW. We all know it’s easier to work from something, anything, than to face the blank page the night before it’s due. If you haven’t begun already, do so! 

On that note, a brief reminder that you will not be able to revise this piece before it goes in front of the class. I’m very sorry, but no exceptions can be made on this policy unless I’ve made an error of some kind on your story. So you’ll need to proofread and edit carefully (again, all the more reason to get started ASAP). I will send feedback as soon as I have it, but the piece cannot be revised before it goes to the class. And you are always welcome to set up an appointment with me or come to my office hours.

Please make sure you double-space, use a 12 point font, make use of normal margins, give your piece a title, send a .doc or .doc-compatible file, and make sure your file name includes your full name (this is a great help to your classmates, as well as me). Please also put page numbers of the document – some of us print out the stories and this helps. For novels, I would suggest that after you are done editing and are ready to submit, you write a brief paragraph explaining where you feel this writing occurs in the manuscript (“This is the opening of the novel I’m writing about…”) and anything we need to know about the story up to now. If you like you may also include a note explaining what you think might happen next. 

A suggestion: stop freaking out about the 50 pages thing. Instead, start thinking about your first page. Who’s the narrator? What story are they telling? Who is your main character? What do they want? Who or what opposes them? If you get that set up well, fifty pages will fly by. 

