Assignment 2 Wikipedia Edit


	Goals

Use writing processes to generate, develop, share, revise, and edit a Wikipedia article.

Edit a Wikipedia article that shows genre awareness, rhetorical situations, structure, purpose, significant content, and audience awareness.

Critically reflect on how to apply the genre knowledge of Wikipedia editing to other writing situations, including your field of study.

Understand, evaluate, and integrate others’ texts into your own writing with appropriate citations and avoid plagiarism.


	Project Description

Wikipedia Edit
Due: Final Draft and Reflection

ESL Workshop

Reflection: After finishing the project, you will submit a reflection essay (1-2 pages,
400-600 words, double spaced). Please draft the reflective essay by answering the
following questions:

	• What are the purposes of your Wikipedia edit? Who are your audiences?
	• What content gaps have you found and how did you address the gaps in your edit? 
	• What is your contribution to the Wikipedia edit? How have you contributed to
	  Wikipedia's coverage of topics related to your home culture?
	• What difficulties have you encountered and how did you manage the difficulties?
	• In what ways has the project enhanced your cultural awareness and/or
	  understanding of different languages and cultural perspectives?
	• How will this writing assignment help you with future assignments in other writing
	  contexts and your fields of study?

You will upload the final edit on Canvas by 10/23. Your reflection essay is due on
Canvas by 10/23.


	Length and Format

Overview:  Wikipedia’s open-access feature gives every registered user the
opportunity to edit its entries. Individually, you will add a sub section to a
Wikipedia start-class, stub-class, or c-class article about a significant and yet
underrepresented topic on Wikipedia. You will also evaluate and document
sources to enhance the credibility and richness of the article. Each of you will
include at least 3 academic sources for the edit. The purposes of this
assignment are to gain awareness of informative genres of writing, and to
critically address Wikipedia's information gaps. 

Your Wikipedia edit should be 2-3 pages (600-900 words). It should follow the
citation styles on Wikipedia. 


	Writing Tips

Information presented on Wikipedia is organized in a logical manner. You
may begin by defining a topic and dividing it into subtopics. Please be
consistent with the format, include headings/subheadings, and hyperlink the
key words and subtopics.

Wikipedia articles are not exhaustive. Keep your Wikipedia edit focused,
brief, and clear. You may read existing Wikipedia entries for an idea of
brevity.

Wikipedia articles include foot notes and a reference list. Make sure that
you follow the citation styles of Wikipedia.

Your audience for this entry includes both general non-professional and
specialized professional readers who have access to your Wikipedia article.
Your audience will assume the authority and trustworthiness of your
Wikipedia edit. In other words, you should consider using styles and voice
that convey your authority as a writer, such as using formal, academic
language and a third-person, serious tone. 


	Grading Criteria

Final Wikipedia Draft	10 pts.
Wikipedia Modules		6 pts.
Reflection Essay		4 pts.


Your Final Wikipedia edit will be graded on the following categories:
(Total number of points: 10 pts.)

	Main Idea:
		Including a main idea relevant to the assigned topic, links to other
		relevant articles, and references associated with every statement. (2 pts.)

	Organization:
		Using a clear and logical organization of headings/subheadings,
		transitions, and clear language/grammar. (2 pts.)

	Support:
		Demonstrating the ability to quote, paraphrase, and summarize sources
		and to provide support for your Wikipedia entry. (2 pts.)

	Sources:
		Including at least 3 sources in your entry and some synthesis of ideas
		from these sources. (2 pts.)

	Writer’s Ethos:
		Meeting the minimum length requirement. Using formal,
		academic language and a neutral tone. Using the appropriate citation format for
		Wikipedia entries. It is carefully proofread and lacks errors. (2 pts.)


Small Assignments: (Total number of points: 10 pts.)
	Wikipedia Modules:
		Completing all of the 9 Wikipedia modules on our Wikipedia
		course website. (6 pts.)
		
	Reflection essay:
		Writing a short essay to reflect on what you have learned. (4 pts.)
