1) Cross-cultural Narrative (3-4 pages): 
	You will write a cross-cultural narrative to describe how you once imagined a place in Pittsburgh before you saw it (e.g., somewhere on the Secret Pittsburgh map), what you discovered or realized about it when you ultimately arrived, how the place was similar to or different from a place in your home country, and why there may be a gap between your preconception and realization. 
	You must include words and phrases from both your first language (L1) and second language (L2) in your cross-cultural narrative and digital storytelling. 
	You will also use DALL.E (Bing search) to generate images that complement the written essay. 
	Please use the following questions to brainstorm ideas for your narrative:

		Exposition: Describe a place in Pittsburgh that you had never visited before. What was your initial imagination of this place based on its name or description? What did you expect to see or experience? What were the key elements of your preconception?

		Conflict: Describe your actual visit to the place. What did you discover or realize about the location that differed from your initial imagination? Were there specific details that surprised you?

		Rising action: Compare the place in Pittsburgh to a similar place in your home country. In what ways were they similar, and where did you observe notable differences? Consider aspects like languages, architecture, daily routines, and/or cultural traditions/festivals.

		Climax: Reflect on how the cross-cultural comparison How did your cross-cultural comparison change your thinking of the two places? For instance, how did the comparison challenge your or DALL.E’s stereotypes about languages, places, and cultures?

		Resolution: Reflect on how the comparison contributed to your linguistic and cultural understanding. How did it broaden your awareness of linguistic and cultural diversity?



Cross-cultural Narrative
	ESL: Workshop in Composition

	Use writing processes to generate, develop, share, revise, proofread and edit a narrative.

	Produce a place narrative that shows genre awareness, rhetorical situations, structure, purpose, significant content, and audience awareness.

	Offer critical and constructive feedback to peers and understand the value of receiving feedback from outside respondents.

	Reflect on your own writing process and rhetorical effectiveness.



Project Description

Goals


2) Reflection (2 pages): 
	After the completion of your bilingual place narrative, you will write a short reflection essay by answering the following questions:

		Briefly describe your project. What are your purposes or key messages for the story?
		Please share links to your DALL.E-generated images.
		What do you feel about the DALL.E-generated images? Are you satisfied with the results or did you find yourself revising the prompts until you were satisfied? Did you notice any cultural stereotypes or biases in the generated images? If so, what are they?
		What would you consider to be the strengths and/or weaknesses of the project?
		What difficulties or problems did you encounter while working on the cross-cultural narrative and digital stories? How did you manage the difficulties?
		What other language/languages (such as your mother tongue) have you used in the final draft and digital stories? What are you trying to highlight through the use of the language?
		In your opinion, how has the project enhanced your cultural awareness and/or understanding of different languages, places, and cultures?



Length and Format

	For this assignment, you will first draft a cross-cultural narrative and then redesign your essay into a digital story. Therefore, you will also compose your essay multimodally, i.e., in a way that combines words, images, and videos. 
	The cross-cultural narrative should be 3-4 pages (900-1200 words), double-spaced, Times New Roman, 12 point font. 



Storytelling Tips

		o Prewriting activities will help you generate ideas about how you have expanded your understanding of a particular location in Pittsburgh through cross-cultural comparison. 
		o Narrative involves organizing your individual stories according to a central idea or theme. You may consider using transitions and other organizational features.
		o A narrative of this kind is constructed with detailed descriptions, examples, and dialogues. You may want to describe in detail what your experiences are with one specific location and how visiting the place enhances your linguistic and cultural understanding. 
		o Since this is a personal narrative, it is appropriate to use the first person (I, me). Although Standard English is recommended for this assignment, please use also use your mother tongue.
		o Your audience for this essay includes peer classmates and your professor, so feel free to keep the style informal or conversational.  



Grading Criteria

	Your project will be graded on the following categories: (Total number of points: 30 pts.)

		o  Cross-cultural Narrative: 

			Main Point: Is governed by a central idea or message; focuses on a specific experience that shaped your understanding of a Pittsburgh location. (3 pts.)

			Plot: Indicates understanding of the elements of plot, including exposition, conflict, rising action, climax, and resolution. (3 pts.) 

			Details: Uses specific examples and dialogues in ways that reflect the conventions of a narrative; integrates DALL.E-generated images effectively. (3 pts.)

			Transitions and verb tenses: Is organized in a logical fashion with transitions and other organizational features without shifting tenses needlessly. (3 pts.)

			Writer’s Ethos: Meets the minimum length and format requirement; consistently use the first-person perspective; is carefully proofread and lacks errors. (3 pts.)


		o  Outline: Complete an outline that describes the structure and key events in your story. (5 pts.)

		o  Peer Review: Complete a peer review sheet that provides feedback on one of your classmates' rough draft. (2 pts.)

		o  Digital Storytelling: Create digital stories that visualize the plot and story of your cross-cultural narrative. (5 pts.)

		o  Reflection: Write a short essay to reflect on what you have learned during the writing process. (3 pts.)



	Outline - 5 pts.
	Digital Storytelling - 5 pts.
	Main Point - 3 pts.
	Plot - 3 pts.
	Details - 3 pts.
	Transitions - 3 pts.
	Ethos - 3 pts.
	Reflection - 3 pts.
	Peer Review - 2 pts.
