Second Short Story Prompt for Intermediate Fiction

It will be returned before the first round of workshops, scheduled for the last four class sessions.  As before, I will return them in the order you’ve signed up for workshopping. Those who workshop first will have less time to revise before the class sees their stories; those who workshop last will have less time to revise before the final portfolio is due. Your call! 

Second draft of this short story will be part of the final portfolio. 

Assignment: Draft a complete short story, of no less than 3 and no more than 10 pages, maximum. Double- or 1.5-pace the story, give it a title, make sure your name is on it, and make the file name distinctive (not “My second story”). 

Keep in mind the suggestions and comments on the syllabus about appropriate and forbidden topics. The topic, plot, characters and other elements are of your choosing. Please make a deliberate choice about how time will work in your story, based on The Art of Time in Fiction. 

I’m always very happy to read a long short story, but at this point in the semester, you may want to turn your efforts to something more along the lines of flash fiction – 1,500 to 3,000 words. Not only is this easier on you, and on me and on your classmates, but literary journals want shorter stories more than longer stories, so by writing short, you’re increasing the number of places you can submit your work to, someday. 

I thought that the vast majority of the stories turned in for your first assignment were really well done. Thoughtful, nuanced, and carefully put together. I’d be delighted to see another batch of stories as equally well done this time. 

BUT please remember that no one is expecting perfection or even something amazing. Just do your best! It’s a draft! You get to keep working on it.  

One final note: If you miss the deadlines involved in this project – in other words, if you turn your work in late to me for my comments or to send out to the class – you may forfeit the next step in the process (i.e. I may  not be able to provide feedback or the class may not workshop your story). I set aside specific time to read your stories with care, and if yours isn’t available to read, I genuinely may not be able to find time to do so later. Sorry! 

As always, if you have any questions, please ask or set up a time to meet with me!  