First Short Story Prompt for Intermediate Fiction


12 point font, double or 1 ½ spaced, please give the story a title, and please call the file something like GoodStudentFirstShortStoryFirstDraft. Submit a .doc or .doc-compatible file. 

It will be returned (I hope!) before the first round of workshops begin. I will return stories in the order they will be workshopped, in hopes of allowing you time to revise beforehand, if you choose. Please note that you are not required to revise your story before it is workshopped by the class – and that the time I can give you for revision will be brief as the stories have to go back to your classmates with enough time for them to read and respond.  

Last draft of this short story for this class will be part of the final portfolio.  You will be required to revise the story in keeping with my comments for it. If you choose to revise significantly between the draft I see and the draft you workshop, that serves as your revision. (Ask me if you’re not sure what a significant revision is). Please note that I do not keep track of the advice your classmates give you and can only evaluate your story based on my own comments. 

Now, the actual assignment!: Draft a complete short story, of no less than 3 and no more than 7 pages, maximum. Again: double or 1.5 spaced. Please write with a clear narrative stance (a perspective), one that any educated reader could identify. No need to be creative with your perspective: first person in the voice of the narrator is completely valid. 

Students sometimes feel frustrated with the brevity of the assigned short story, and it is indeed much harder to write short than to write long. You will have to focus, practice self-editing and write with precision. All important skills! More practically, remember that it’s easier on all of us to read fewer pages and literary journals are often in search of stories that are between 3 and 10 pages. 

A couple of suggestions and reminders: 

Keep in mind the suggestions and comments on the syllabus about appropriate and forbidden topics. The topic, plot, characters and other elements are of your choosing.

Remember that it’s always fine to talk with me about your story, especially if you have any confusion about the narrative stance. My comments will often be along the lines of “Sounds great, you should write that,” but I am happy to chat! 

There is no need to force a story that is less than 7 pages to be exactly that long. Turning in a story that is 3, 4, or 5 pages long is absolutely fine. 

You most likely will not have room in your story for a lot of backstory. That may mean that you will write much more than you can actually include, in order to get to know your characters. Be brave, and cut what you don’t think readers actually need to know. 

You will also likely do better with a smaller event or series of events instead of, say, trying to tell the story of your family over the last 200 years. 

Strong protagonists with strong wants and strong antagonists are often very helpful in shorter short stories. 

Sometimes, in a shorter story, knowing the conclusion you are writing to is helpful. 

For those of you who are unfamiliar with my response style, I’d invite other students in the class to share what it’s like to get a story back with my comments… (and I hope everyone finds it liberating to know that there is NO way to get a story draft back with “Looks good, A+” on it. It has never happened!) 

Remember that no one is expecting perfection or even something amazing. Just do your best! It’s a draft! If it’s terrible than you’ve given yourself lots of room for improvement! We’ll work on it! It’ll be ok! 

Finally, one more reminder that you will make life a lot easier on yourself, especially if you’re starting your draft a couple of hours before it’s due (which I do not recommend, for the record), if you write what you know. 

Good luck! Have fun! 