D. PROMPT: Essay 2, Modeling "How to Tame a Wild Tongue," COMPLETE DRAFT FOR AN INITIAL GRADE


PROMPT: Essay 2, Modeling Gloria Anzaldua
“How to Tame a Wild Tongue”

	Minimum of 1000 words
	MLA format


In the process of writing this essay, you have already:

	1. Read, considered, discussed, and explored excerpts from Gloria Anzaldua’s essay, “How to Tame a Wild Tongue.” 
	   In this essay, Anzaldua interrogates her own language and makes connections between her tongue(s), her home, 
	   and the impact of culture on her identity and sense of self.

	2. Explored your own “languages” and cultural groups, and, likewise, have sought to make connections between 
	   your culture, your language, and your own identity and sense of self.

	3. Written and explored many ideas throughout the “How to Tame a Wild Tongue” Generating Ideas Project; 
	   found your essay’s “center of gravity” (the claim or central focusing idea) by noticing places of friction 
	   and energy in your own writing and ideas; discovered and named your essay’s primary audience and the purpose 
	   of your writing; “mapped” your essay by formulating and developing clear “big ideas” (supporting evidence for 
	   your essay’s claim); decided on the most effective form and structure for your essay; and written introduction 
	   and conclusion paragraphs using a method that you feel will be most rhetorically effective for your essay’s 
	   audience and purpose.


Now it’s time to put it all together!


Essay Objectives

This essay should:

	1. Have a clear “central focusing idea” with value, meaning, and purpose. 
	   This central focusing idea should relate to the relationship between language/culture and identity/sense of self.

	2. Develop cohesive “big ideas” that effectively support the essay’s “central focusing idea” for the essay’s audience and purpose.

	3. Use ideas, observations, and examples from the author’s own life and experience to develop its “big ideas.”

	4. Use concrete and specific details, examples, and language in the development of its “big ideas.”

	5. Use a variety of intentional writing forms, including a poem and both an introduction and conclusion paragraph form 
	   chosen from the options we discussed in class (see the resources on our Canvas site).

	6. Develop logically and cohesively at the sentence and paragraph level.

	7. Make effective rhetorical choices for the essay’s audience, purpose, and writing situation.

	8. Be a minimum of 1000 words, in MLA format.


Total Points: 100


Essay 2: Modeling "How to Tame a Wild Tongue" (Rubric)

Criteria							Ratings						Pts

Have a clear “central focusing idea” with value, meaning, and purpose. 
This claim should relate to the relationship between language/culture 
and identity/sense of self.				Full Marks: 10

Develop cohesive “big ideas” that support the essay’s “central focusing idea” 
effectively for the essay’s audience and purpose.		Full Marks: 20

Use ideas, observations, and examples from the author’s own life and 
experience to develop its “big ideas.”			Full Marks: 10

Use concrete and specific details, examples, and language in the development 
of its “big ideas.”					Full Marks: 20

Use a variety of intentional writing forms, including a poem and both an 
introduction and conclusion paragraph form chosen from the options we 
discussed in class (see the resources on our Canvas site).	Full Marks: 20

Develop logically and cohesively at the sentence and paragraph level.	
							Full Marks: 10

Make effective rhetorical choices (including grammar, punctuation, and syntax) 
for the essay’s audience, purpose, and writing situation.	
							Full Marks: 10
