PROMPT. Essay 1. The Image Essay


ESSAY ONE: 
Entering the Conversation 
“Something You’re Fascinated by, 

Obsessed with, or Wondering about” 
1000 words minimum 

 

In this essay, you’ll practice a more traditional academic move, which is to give your own ideas 
“context” by summarizing the research and ideas of others before responding to them. In this way 
you’ll listen to, summarize, and then “enter the existing conversation” about something that you’re 
fascinated by, obsessed with, or wondering about. 

Part 1 (context and summary):  
First, now that you’ve read and annotated a resource of your choosing, think about the  
following questions: 

	• What conversation is the resource/author participating in? 
	• Who is the resource/author and why are they participating in this conversation? 
	• What is the resource/author’s opinion/claim/main point/purpose? 
	• What evidence/examples does the author use to support his/her/their ideas? 

Then, write: 
Introduce the existing conversation and topic of your essay in your essay’s opening paragraph(s). 
How might you get your reader interested in this topic right from the beginning? 
Do some research to figure out how and why the resource (and the resource’s author) you’re
summarizing is related to the topic you’re exploring. What do you need to tell your reader about
this resource and/or author’s relationship to your topic? Why are they important for both the
existing conversation and your essay’s position? Provide meaningful context about the resource/
author you’re summarizing and responding to for your reader. 
Use the writing moves and/or summary templates (as effective for your audience) we’ve
practiced in class to summarize the main idea/purpose/intention (the claim or “central 
focusing idea”) and supporting content (the “big ideas”) of your chosen resource. 

Part 2: (response) 

In this part, you’ll introduce your essay’s position or “center of gravity” and develop/support 
that central focusing idea with examples and ideas from your own experience.  

*In other words, “enter the existing conversation” with your own position/central focusing 
idea about this topic that you are fascinated by, obsessed with, or wondering about. 

First, 
Identify your essay’s position/central focusing idea. This central focusing idea should be your 
essay's "center of gravity" and the most important part of your essay. Remember that this essay 
project is not asking you to report, analyze, summarize, or develop "reader response" as its sole 
and central purpose. Rather, this essay asks you to use your resource, and the introductory ideas 
you summarized, as a springboard into an essay based on your own discoveries and with a clear 
sense of purpose and audience. In other words, write an essay based on your "own agenda." 

Then, 
	1. Describe/explain/develop examples and ideas from your own experience.  *In other words, 
	develop your own “big ideas” that work together to support your essay’s “center of gravity.” 

	2. Refer to specific ideas and/or passages from your resource. Explain how these passages 
	connect to your own ideas and experiences. 

	3. Incorporate 2 quotes from your resource into your paragraphs using the framing techniques 
	(the “quote burger”) discussed in They Say/ I Say and in class. 

	4. Incorporate 5 images into your essay that create meaning/support/development for your 
	central focusing idea. Remember that there's a difference between simply "illustrating" an 
	idea and "developing" an idea. 

Finally, 
Remember to Spell & Grammar check your doc (Spelling & Grammar is under the "Review" 
tab on your Word app), save it, then upload it to Canvas as an attachment.
