D. Discovery Draft a: write a letter to the author. Essay 2 Project

Essay 2 Project: Modeling an Unconventional Essay

Discovery Draft a: Write a letter to an author

Minimum of 300 words


	For this writing exploration, write a letter to one of the three authors whose essays you read and explored as the 
	first step in our Essay 2 project:

		Jamaica Kincaid: “Girl”
		Dinty Moore: “Son of Mr. Green Jeans, an Essay on Fatherhood”
		Carlos Greaves: “Are You Allowed to Criticize Simone Biles?”

	To be successful, this letter should indicate your thinking, interpretation, and analysis of the essay you’re writing about. 
	In other words, to ask the right kinds of questions and make meaningful connections, you must have already read, 
	annotated, understood, “mapped,” and thought deeply and meaningfully about the choices the author made to 
	develop the essay in question.

	Also remember that the author you’re writing to is a real person. You might want to know who you’re writing to before 
	you write the letter as well. Knowing your audience will help you make effective rhetorical choices and writing moves.


Here is an outline for your letter’s structure:
(I have provided some sample sentences/ideas based on “A Farm Boy Reflects,” by Nicholas Kristoff.)


1. Introductory paragraph:

	Introduce yourself and provide context for the letter by citing the name of the essay and a brief summary of its 
	central focusing idea/purpose:

	For example:

	Hello Mr. Kristoff,

	My name is _____ and I’m a professor of writing at the University of Pittsburgh. I recently read and enjoyed 
	“A Farm Boy Reflects,” which focused on the important idea that, even though it’s okay to eat meat, animals should 
	be raised in humane conditions.


2. Specific praise/analysis:

	Highlight particular aspects of the book you enjoyed or found thought-provoking, including specific scenes, 
	characters, themes, or writing style. 

	For example:

	I noticed how effectively you used excellent examples of how animals are similar to humans so that your readers 
	would feel empathy for them. For example, I was drawn to the example of the geese who would try to protect 
	their mates. The line about how a goose “would be frightened out of its wits, but still determined to stand with and 
	comfort its lover,” was an especially impactful line because it created such strong emotion.

	Etc. Etc. Etc.


3. Make connections to your own life, ideas, and experience.

	Share how the work impacted you personally, whether it sparked new ideas, aligned with your own experiences, or 
	made you question your own understanding, beliefs, or ideas. 

	For example:

	Like you, I too grew up with some understanding of how animals are raised. My grandfather was a cattle and sheep 
	rancher in southern Utah, and we always had freezers full of meat he had raised. I think I had more appreciation for 
	that meat, though, because I worked with my grandfather to round up the cattle, to brand them, and even to lead 
	them into the chute. It’s different when you know where your food is coming from rather than simply buying it from 
	the grocery store.


4. Ask specific questions about the essay’s form, structure, and/or strategy. Include your own ideas and analysis.

	For example:

	I wonder why you chose to use more informal writing and language in this essay? It was very conversational, which 
	makes me think you were trying to convince people without making them feel guilty or angry.

	Etc. Etc. Etc.


5. Finish with a complimentary close that also highlights one more important impact on, or connection to, your own life.

	For example,

	Thank you for sharing an essay that made me think about an issue I hadn’t considered before. I will be more aware 
	of where my food comes from every time I visit the grocery store.

	Sincerely.

Points: 100
