Cross-cultural Narrative_Outline

You will write a cross-cultural narrative, describing how you once imagined a place in Pittsburgh before you saw it (e.g., somewhere on the Secret Pittsburgh map), what you discovered or realized about it when you ultimately arrived, how the place was similar to or different from a place in your home country, and why there may be a gap between your preconception and realization. You should include words and phrases from both your first language (L1) and second language (L2) in your bilingual place narrative. You will also use DALL.E (Bing search) to generate images that complement the written essay.

For this assignment, create an outline of your cross-cultural narrative, roughly 1-2 page (300-600 words). Include the following: a tentative title, main point, exposition, conflict, rising action, climax, and resolution.

	Title: Be creative!

	Main Point: 
		What are the key messages you want to convey through the narrative?

	Exposition: 
		Describe a place in Pittsburgh that you had never visited before. 
		What was your initial imagination of this place based on its name or description? 
		What did you expect to see or experience? 
		What were the key elements of your preconception?

		Embed a DALL.E-generated image here about your cultural imagination of the place before visiting the place.

	Conflict: 
		Describe your actual visit to the place. 
		What did you discover or realize about the location that differed from your initial imagination? 
		Were there specific details that surprised you?

		Embed a DALL.E-generated image here about your feeling of the place after visiting the place.

	Rising action: 
		Compare the place in Pittsburgh to a similar place in your home country. 
		In what ways were they similar, and where did you observe notable differences? 
		Consider aspects like languages, architecture, atmosphere, and cultural elements.

		Embed a DALL.E-generated image here about your feeling of the place in your home country.

	Climax: 
		Reflect on how the cross-cultural comparison changed your thinking of the two places. 
		For instance, how did the comparison challenge your or DALL.E's stereotypes or assumptions about languages, places, and cultures?

		Embed a DALL.E-generated image here about your cross-cultural comparison of the two places.

	Resolution: 
		Reflect on how the comparison contributed to your linguistic and cultural understanding. 
		How did it broaden your awareness of linguistic and cultural diversity?


Outline Rubric

	Criteria: Description of criterion

	5 pts  Superior  
		Demonstrated sufficient engagement with the key elements of a story outline 
		(main point, exposition, conflict, rising action, climax, and resolution).  
		Met the length requirement.

	4 pts  Well-developed  
		Demonstrated good engagement with the key elements of a story outline 
		(main point, exposition, conflict, rising action, climax, and resolution).  
		OR fell slightly below the length requirement.

	3 pts  Emerging  
		Demonstrated partial engagement with the key elements of a story outline 
		(main point, exposition, conflict, rising action, climax, and resolution).  
		OR fell below the length requirement.

	2 pts  Weak  
		Demonstrated a lack of engagement with the key elements of a story outline 
		(main point, exposition, conflict, rising action, climax, and resolution).  
		OR fell below the length requirement.

	0 pts  No Marks


Total Points: 5
