Prompt

Flash Fiction Assignment

	The basics: due by midnight, Wednesday, February 12th at midnight (which is really 9 AM, Thursday, February 13th). 
	Use a normal 12 pt. font and double or 1 ½ space. 
	Remember to title your file distinctively, preferably with your last name in the file name. 
	Doc or .doc-compatible format, please. 

	Maximum is 1500 words. Shorter is fine. 500 words is great. 
	If you find yourself running to 1700 words, no big deal, but if you’re at 2,000, it’s time to stop. 
	I won’t read past that. 
	The topic is entirely up to you, but remember that it’s hard to tell a big story in flash fiction, 
	and that you might help yourself by using characters or a setting or a world you already know well. 

	Give your flash fiction a title. 
	Make sure it has an ending. 
	Do not make that ending “it was all a dream.” 
	Remember to tread carefully in writing police/courtroom/hospital stories. 
	Do you really know what you’re talking about? If so, okay. 

	It’s natural, even correct, to feel like you don’t quite know what you’re doing on this assignment 
	or that you need to learn a lot more about writing before you start. 
	I understand. There is much more to learn and discuss. 
	But you have to start somewhere, and you already do know more than you think about how stories work. 
	So don't panic. Just try. 
	It’s just a draft, and as Lamott has been telling us all month, drafts are just something to start from. 
	Resolve yourself to the idea that you will be writing more than one draft, 
	and that there is no way to get it “perfect” on the first draft. 
	But I bet you’ll write something that will be worth keeping, even if it’s only a sentence or two. 
	This is the way all writers work, by the way. 
	You are not wrong, or stupid, or untalented. 
	Writing is hard. Just begin. 

Suggestions:
	Start in the middle of your plot, at the last possible place the story can begin and still make sense to readers. 
	Focus on character and conflict, the two aspects of writing fiction you know something about. 
	Think small. Give yourself time to revise. 
	Remember that may take a couple of tries to get something you like. No big deal. 

	Avoid backstory. 
	This is good advice in general, but especially for flash fiction. 
	What almost always happens is that the writer fills in lots of background information in the first page, 
	then feels there’s not enough room to really write the story. 
	But if you cut that background information, and just start when the story starts, you’ll have lots of room. 
	Sometimes you have to write a lot of backstory to understand your characters, 
	but your readers most likely don’t need to know as much of you before they get into the story. 
	We like to watch people (characters), not be told too much about them. 

Advice from my prior students:
	“Get the characters to do or say who they are instead of describing them.”
	“Write just enough.”
	“Allow mystery.”
	“Flash fictions are often more moments and beats than full scenes.”
	“Leave your audience missing some part of the story.”
	“Write vignettes.”


When I read these, the first thing I look for is the conflict of the story: 
	a main character who wants something, and someone or something that opposes them. 
	If you don’t have that, my goal will be to help you develop it. 
	That takes precedence for me over descriptive language/imagery/dialogue, etc. 
	All of those are, of course, very important too, 
	but without a conflict that fuels a plot, you don’t have a story. 
	So don’t be surprised if I mostly don’t have much to say about your beautiful imagery 
	and instead hone in on the conflict. 

	Remember, the first draft goes to me, 
	I give you feedback and send it back to you, 
	and then you can revise it if you want to before it goes to the class for workshopping. 
	You are not required to revise before it goes in front of the class. 

One final note:
	I have literally never read a piece of flash fiction that opens with the character waking up to an alarm that worked. ☺

Good luck! Have fun! 
Remember, bird by bird.
