Cross-cultural Narrative_Digital Stories & Storytelling Statement

Points: 8


Step 1: 
	Please submit your Video 1 (mp4), Video 2 (mp4), and a digital story statement in this OneDrive folder. 
	Each video will be about 30 sec–2 minutes in length, including a title, dialogues, and background music. 
	Please integrate words/phrases from a language other than English (e.g., Chinese) into your animation. 
	You may use your storyboards to map out each scene in your story, including a voiceover, background music, and character designs.


Step 2: 
	In this Canvas submission folder, individually, submit a storytelling statement (400–600 words, doc or docx) that does the following:


	1. Compare your experience creating the non-AI-assisted video to the AI-assisted video.
		How your creative process and decision-making differed between the two videos? 
		How using versus not using AI affected your sense of control over the creative process? 
		What challenges did you encounter in each process and how did you overcome them?

	2. Provide the exact prompt you used to generate Video 2 with Vyond Go and reflect on your intended outcomes.
		Why you chose this prompt and how it reflects your intended outcome for the video?

	3. Describe what you learned about the benefits and limitations of AI in video making.
		What are the strengths and weaknesses of using AI in a creative context like video making? 
		For instance, did AI enhance your ability to generate ideas, save time, or explore new styles, or did it limit your creative freedom?

	4. Describe the extent to which you are satisfied with the initial AI-generated video.
		How do you feel about the quality of the video generated by Vyond Go? 
		What worked well and what aspects fell short of your expectations?

	5. Describe any changes you made to the AI-generated video (Video 2).
		What specific edits did you make after generating the video using Vyond Go 
		(adding characters, changing the background music, and changing the scenes, etc.)? 
		Why did you feel these modifications were necessary to achieve a better result of storytelling?



Digital Storytelling Rubric

Criteria			Ratings					Pts

Storytelling			Creating engaging digital stories with character designs, 
				scenes, music/voiceover, and a title screen.			3 pts

Length requirement		Meeting the minimum length requirement (30 sec–2 minutes)	2 pts

Storytelling Statement		Writing a storytelling statement that answers all the 
				questions in the prompt; meeting the length requirement.	3 pts

Total Points: 8


Ratings:
	Storytelling				3 pts Full Marks
	Length requirement			2 pts Full Marks
	Storytelling Statement			3 pts Full Marks
