Second Round of Workshopping Prompt
Senior Seminar

Okay, now that you’ve been through the workshopping process, you no doubt have a better idea of what to expect, and where it can be helpful (and where it isn’t, really). So, choose your next pieces for workshop with that in mind: ask yourself, what do you want to get out of workshopping them, and how can the workshopping process best help move you towards completing the final portfolio for the class? 

As before, you will not be able to submit your entire 50 pages to the class for workshopping. You only get 10-ish pages. From my perspective, there are basically three ways to go within those 10 pages. 
You can revise the 10 pages you already submitted and submit that again. This would fulfill the requirement in the final portfolio that 10 pages of the 40 should be “revised and polished.” It would also build on the work that you did for your revision assignment. The possible drawback is that this option leaves you at 10 instead of 20 pages after workshopping. 
You can turn in 10 entirely new pages – a new short story, a new excerpt, a complete revision of the project (but let me know beforehand if you’re revamping it entirely), etc. This, of course, allows you to receive feedback on a new portion of the story from the class and me, and moves you to, or closer to, 20 pages. Of course, you haven’t completely addressed the revised/polished aspect yet, then, until you revise the initial 10 page section (or, later, this 10 page section. To be clear, you have to revise one or the other, you cannot “revise” pages I’ve never seen, obviously). But you certainly could revise on your own (working with me individually if you like) and also draft anew, and then let the class know – “I’m writing it in third person past tense now” – so we’re up to date. 
You can turn in a mix of revised and new pages. Some of you mentioned wanting to expand sections, for example, so you could keep your prior page 1-3, for example, and then draft a new 4-10. The class will like this because it will be fewer pages to read. ☺ And you’d move yourself along on the revision portion of the final portfolio. However, you’re not producing that many more pages as part of the final 50. 

There are probably other options that are unique to your work, so feel free to discuss this with me. I do trust you to figure this out, but if you feel at sea, ask for help! 

No matter what you decide to turn in, it must be no more than 10 (double or 1 ½ spaced) pages. It can be fewer pages. I know 10 pages isn’t a lot, but keep in mind that we’re trying not to completely overwhelm each other with reading. I strongly encourage you to write past 10 if you are in the groove, and then choose 10 pages to turn in (with helpful notes), as you will eventually want that work, anyway. 

Please put your ENTIRE name in the file name, e.g.: JaneDoeSeniorSeminar2Submission.doc. (This helps your classmates who are looking for “Jane” not “Doe.”). All the guidelines from the first submission remain in place.

Finally, I hope that you feel some sense of accomplishment and pride as you approach the end of the semester. I know that the tasks ahead feel daunting, and I also know from painful personal experience that they will best be accomplished bird by bird, as Anne Lamott says – a little bit, every day, without too much drama or anxiety. As I write this, you have about 6 weeks left to write your 50 pages. I know from watching some students crash and burn that this will be nearly impossible to do in one marathon writing session, but it is accomplished much more easily if you write a little every day (and yes, realistically, if you power through a couple of big writing sessions at the end). But that’s not the part about accomplishment and pride – you should feel that when you look back on your first proposal in this class, and think about how much you have accomplished since then, bringing to life worlds and characters that do not exist without you. That’s awesome. I’m proud of you. Here we go! ☺ 